[Music]
P o H player owned house a lot of other
games have houses Skyrim you can buy a
house or two to store all the [__] you
stole minecraft you can make your own
Dream House slap a bed in there why not
star do Valle take a little nap feel
better against Sims make it look all
nice and pretty before you download 17
sex mods all these games have beds by
the way runescape you can have a bed too
you can have three 4 beds if you want
but you're not sleeping in that [__]
runescape characters go their entire
existence without sleeping [__] sleep if
I want to regain health or something
I'll sip a pool of sizzurp and go along
with my day look runescape houses
function for one reason and one reason
only experience baby good old-fashioned
efficiency they are the core of the
modern players grind players will put
hundreds of hours into making money just
straight up giving themselves arthritis
to turn their outhouse into a Beverly
Hills dream mansion I'm talking
unlimited teleports gilded altar a pool
of that purple drank that good [__]
everything to get all the experience
your antisocial ass could ever want but
ladies and gentlemen that's not always
how it was no no no that's the evolved
player owned house it took almost 14
years to get to that point that was not
what player owned houses started that so
let me take you all back because I've
been doing some reading and by that I
mean letting a cool British guy do the
reading for me on audible which happens
to be today's sponsor yeah I know
there's a great segue I'm I'm really
good at this you see these things know
if you're like me you like a good story
you also have things to do
audible is the top dog of the spoken
word entertainment industry I'll be
honest dude I'm a nerd I read the quest
dialogue in this goddamn game but I
don't have the motivation to sit down
and read a book anymore so I took
audible as my chance and opportunity to
get back into it I for one recently got
into the Witcher storylines after
binging the entire Netflix show in a day
so I invested in the first three
audiobooks I felt like it was a pretty
good guy move they've got a ton of stuff
they've got news business podcasts
comedy things on self-development since
we're all gamers with low self-esteem
issues you guys
visit audible.com slash Jimmy or Tex
Jimmy to 500 500 you'll get a credit on
audible to spend on whatever you want
and also access to to audible originals
if you sign up for a month trial with
that code plus this way you'll be able
to impress that girl by making her think
you read you're welcome audible.com
slash j1m my sign up for a free trial
you get that cool stuff let's get back
to it on May 31st 2006
Jagex put out their most revolutionary
idea yet they wanted everyone to have a
more immersive experience with their
runescape character you could now stroll
down to one of many sketchball real
estate agents around the game pay them
1,000 GP and have your very own house
there's lots of neighborhoods to set up
your house we've got Rimington
you know host sidious that's a new one
taverley all evil trim Haven relic oh oh
and can't forget about dead content elf
City but if we're being real here we're
gonna take that list and make it go away
and narrow that down to one that's gonna
leave us with our main hub Remington
because no one has set their house and
any of those other ones you are a weird
guy if you set your house anywhere else
Remington instantly became a hotspot
everyone's you know training
construction their decorating their
walls hiring Butler's everyone's having
a blast but by everyone I mean only the
richest players in the entire [__]
game just the twelve or fourteen year
olds who could outsmart and scam the
ten-year-old playing those [__] were
the ones who could afford to train
construction at the time just for some
insight on that ninety nine construction
in 2020 cost 250 mill in 2006 two
hundred and fifty mil if you were
training construction back then you're a
sketchy [__] up to no good
I don't want to be friends with you no
one was training construction I even
found a forum post two years after
construction was released from this dude
asking what's the point of training
construction I got to 40 do what the
hell is this and a common reply was I
was just a flex man just like having a
Santa hat or a party hat you just I
don't know when that one gnome quest
glove read 2005 I don't know his name
but it gave people the crystals saw
which let you build things three levels
above your actual construction level and
people still for like I don't
give a [__] I'm not touching that skill
like I said there was that handful of
players who were training their
construction levels but when they got
through training and they built their
houses up you want to know what they did
they weren't giving you your crazy
experience rates they weren't letting
you into teleport anywhere do me a favor
open up the world hot menu go down to
world 330 tell me what it says house
parties screw your XP those guys were
throwing [__] ragers these rich
homeowners would pay a real player 100k
an hour to sit outside the house portal
and manually type an advertisement for
their [__] banger of a party look at
these old clips lookit look at the
advertisements if you were advertising
that you had a gilded altar in your
house you need a goddamn reality check
because you have no idea what's going on
people wanted you to know about the
combat rings that's super awesome
dungeons that you could fight in the
social crews that was what grabs
people's attention so you hopped in a
house that's being advertised one of two
things happened the most common ones
just a mediocre set up you know half
finished rooms nothing special there's
the house host he's got his best friend
in real life hey welcome to my house
something super [__] annoying or -
you loaded into that advertised house
and you walked into the project ex of
runescape parties we've got girls who
are just dancing around a dude in full
elegant black cavalier that was the
outfit back then if you were you know a
cool kid that was your goal
stupid stupid outfit you got that line
of players with their flared trousers
doing that badass disco dance you got
two eighth graders telling the 5th
graders to walk over the tiles in the
throne room
it was the type of party if your mom
walked in you're switching browsers as
fast as you literally can but she does
not need to know what's going on at that
rager this is what construction was is
where people found their social skills
I'm pretty sure
it would be a sin for me to talk about
the origins of construction and not
mention the falador massacre it was one
of the craziest things to ever happen in
an MMO people that haven't even played
runescape have heard of the falador
massacre because of how [__] up it was
just one week after the skill was
released
that's a 666 a player named cursed you
begged his parents to stay home from
school and grind out with another friend
on his account to be the first one to
hit 99 construction that's a true story
he actually has like a 30 minute vlog
thing talking about being the first
person to 99 construction could check
that out it's really cool when he hit
that 99 construction you want to take a
guess of what that guy did he threw the
[__] down dude players were everywhere
so that being said that was a problem
for most because their computers could
not handle that let alone [__] record
it it's a miracle we have this curse to
use dial-up was overloading his 128
megabytes of RAM was on fire he kicked
him all out he was good everything was
back to normal
while he sat there twiddling his thumbs
waiting for people to get back in his
house he had no idea that right outside
his front door there was an absolute
bloodbath darriel three two one in the
midst of this mass kick probably the
first of its kind this dirty old guy
inherited some sort of glitch the glitch
let him run around to the normal area of
runescape
and just attack and kill anyone he
wanted he had a green party hat on full
Aram's a whip he was just raining hell
on anyone who looked like they had
anything of value you could see the
panic all the player moderators Bank
your [__] get out here go pack your
things leave with your families if I was
derrial here was here's what I would
have done I would have been super
stealth mode once I figured out I could
kill one person I would teleport
immediately I start teleporting around
the world finding people training Slayer
high occurs with a lot of money a lot of
you long's probably and you start wiping
people out just like a like a silent
assassin killer
I'm still trying to be a player
moderator by the way but yeah I have no
idea how many people he actually got
could be seven could be eighty-four he
got banned it was over cursed you had
gotten banned as well not because he
initiated the glitch but because Jagex
found out he was a RW tear like I said
anyone who could train construction back
then there's sketchy [__] I'm gonna
go ahead and label 2006 to 2008 the noob
era nobody knew what was going on no one
cared to figure it out there was not a
lot of people trying to figure out the
best way to maximize their efficiency
but somewhere in this noob era people
figured out gilded altars with all the
prayer training came a few more factors
in the Poh world
the first being incense burners if you
want the gilded altars to give you all
the experience possible both of the
candles on both sides have to be lit
hosts wanted no part in that this was
when socializing was still priority so
you know someone else to do that people
would be on hourly wages doing jobs like
this and good God people would be pissed
at these guys these poor dudes are
grinding their asses off trying to make
a hundred K just lighting the same two
candles over and over again I've never
seen an angry mob spring up faster than
when these dudes just forget to light it
for a second I had learned every curse
word and bad name you can call somebody
in the span of like 10 seconds we've
also got a birth of a new neighborhood I
guess you could say this might have been
the first step to efficiency in the
entire game people started putting their
houses and hosting it at you know you
know was the closest portal to a bank
and clearly it would make more sense to
do your prayer training there so
Remington became the hub for social life
and II dating and then Gunilla was like
the prayer training efficiency dudes and
that brought along another system of
bone runners there was just a lot of
rich bastards trying to find the
dumbasses to do their dirty work for
them no security in your payment's most
people were like yeah do it for an hour
and I'll give you a 100 K the 59 minute
mark rolls around and
the dude mysteriously disconnects I was
really sad new Baro was a rough time
January 2nd 2008 to February 1st 2011
for for three years three entire [__]
years
Jagex took out free trade took out the
wilderness no more giving your friends
anything for fun no more gifts it was
just a big scheme to stop people from
buying and selling gold and it was
terrible but relating it to the player
owned houses there was no more ability
to pay people to burn the candles for
you no more paying for bone runners most
people have suppressed that in their
memory for as long as they could
I'm sorry for those that I've you know
brought this time back for you I
apologize I'm I'm hurting just as much
if you wanted to train prayer
efficiently you most likely had to build
your own and gilded altar because there
was hosting at the time but not nearly
as much as there would have been if they
got paid for it the incentive to host
your house was gone you were just
sacrificing your day away it was just
such a shitty time Jagex what the [__]
man another day another day there's a
lot of things for other days dude
February 1st 2011 I remember the day
very vividly the free trade was back the
wilderness was back bone runners back in
action my candles I'm not burning them
you [__] do it
what gain XP will make him money we're
getting scanned we're luring idiots it
was chaos the best kind of goddamn chaos
everything was good everything was right
in the world except not really see
during that blurry period sometime in
2009 Jagex had this fun and quirky idea
to hit up Farooq in Alka Rid and say hey
you can sell dice bags no one bought
dice bags because why would you buy a
why but the free trades back now we can
gamble the return of the free trade in
2011 was the introduction to a gambler's
paradise baby not gonna go into
specifics about gambling and dicing but
it started a trend in player owned
houses you are getting a welcome you
know hey what's going on good
you were getting a dicing times too
legit no scamming I would never scam
anybody welcome to my house by the way
give me your money fare is expensive
you're down a little bit hurting the
bank a little bit I got a solution for
you I'll roll a little dice maybe you
can make some of the money but posts
we're no longer hosting houses they were
hosting goddamn casinos if you got
sucked in which a lot of people did you
just bought yourself a one-way ticket to
getting [__]
lucky for us and all of our morality
Jagex stepped in and saw this trend
apparently they said we put the dice in
the game they were never meant for for
gambling the [__] do you think dice are
what did you expect from that they took
all the dice bags out of the game player
ran game of chance we're done just
kidding idiots ever heard of flour games
that's right flowers being planted by
the hundreds of thousands every day
hosts were right on top of this no more
dice no problem we've got a brand-new
garden in my house over here it's just a
strictly flower garden you'll like it
hot and cold times two flower poker
legit House Rules by the way frosty
flowers get bent over for fun it quite
literally ruled the entire game I had
actually found myself in a position to
be way too involved in that scene than I
would have liked but does for another
day evolution of combat this was the
biggest rework that has ever happened in
the entire game a bunch of debate and
chaos happened we ended up with a
petition to start old school runescape a
2007 backup server and then in 2013 we
got hold school runescape so forget
everything I just told you from 2007 to
2013 completely irrelevant scratch it
redo try again now in 2013 were back in
old school back in 2007 we were all
still idiots efficiency was still not
priority most players had joined old
school joined for that nostalgia factor
reliving the childhood memories letting
it all flow back to them waking up at
5:00 a.m. before school to go train on
Alka red guards with a granite Maul I
was a [__] idiot dude only the moss
Giants off-task of course specking him
out with a dragon longsword sound
effects full volume to feel the impact
oh it all came back it felt so good but
about a week of nostalgia and then you
remembered
oh I just got BioShock Infinite I'm in
the middle of the campaign I got to keep
playing that because it's like way more
fun
you're on GTA 5 planning full-fledged
heists with the greatest trio of all
time you're doing other [__] we'd all
played this game before a long time ago
the concept of adventure was no longer
gonna keep us there I'm gonna call this
theory the the theory of of getting
older so our motives to do [__] are are
really boring it's a working title we're
no longer motivated by adventure and
exploration but more towards achieving a
goal and being successful at something
so naturally when old school did come
out the ones who did stick around they
took it as the opportunity to grind out
a skill maybe they never had the time to
or didn't have the dedication for
whether you were getting 99 crafting or
building a pure account that you'd
always want it or you know getting a
quest Cape the concept of getting an
achievement was the reason old-school
survived so we officially entered the
generation of grind scape the first
construction update came about nine
months after the release of old school
you are able to keep your doors open or
closed you just toggle them however you
wanted them to be when people entered
then a year later the first indication
that player owned houses we're leaning
towards this new generation we got our
boy our man files he's a very
respectable businessman he's posted up a
few feet away from the Rimington house
portal this ladies and gentlemen was the
death of bone runners rare training just
got a whole lot easier and a whole lot
cooler forward to July 15th we got F
keys we also got the ability to call our
servant whenever we want them just some
quality of life things but then 2016 if
you're playing old school in 2016 you're
invested you're in way too deep to pull
out so the old school team took a step
back and they they looked at the player
owned house system and they said if
somebody's going to invest their time
and money being a complete psychopath to
train that up we might as well make it
worth it for them
the construction
boy oh boy did jagex rework the [__] out
of houses we got the house viewer the
most convenient thing to ever happen at
rearranging rooms and setting them
whatever direction you want we've got
the superior garden now you want a fairy
ring in your house build that [__] you
want a spirit tree in your house build
that [__] you want the spirit tree and
the fairy ring to make sweet love to
each other and have a baby that babies
like a spirit tree in a fairy ring
together build esha you want a pool of
drug liquid to heal you whatever may be
happening to your shitty body build a
[__]
we got the achievement gallery not only
can you flex harder than you've ever
flex before in this room this room's a
literal godsend you can build an occult
altar and switch your spell books
whenever you please however many times
you want or running around for 10
minutes to go change your spell book
just use it to your own disposal we
[__] King ornate jewelry box ever
heard of it all teleporting devices
combined together into one thing with
unlimited uses is that not the hottest
and sexiest thing you've ever heard in
your life
are you sweating you sick disgusting
animal and then every host dream they've
got the tip jar the actual training of
construction still really sucked but it
was kind of worth it now since you could
basically play the entire game within
the confines of your home all you ever
needed was house teleports and you're
good to go you can do whatever you want
2017 everyone's arthritis slowly gets
delayed a little longer you can use the
numbers on your keyboard to select which
piece of furniture you want to build we
want to just spam in 1 in 6 to train
their construction now it's a miracle XP
rates are higher than anyone ever
imagined it's beautiful everyone's
coming I mean how could this get any
better there's no way it could possibly
wrong [__] you other me of course it can
get better
ever heard of a portal Nexus all spell
teleports combined into one swinging
ball of juicy greatness [__] house
teleport house teleported everywhere I
leave my house and all the XP it's so
good
you filthy boa it's you I love it give
me more granted rs3 they probably got
their own quality of life things done to
their house in the meantime quality of
life as in
cosmetic decor that you can buy for 500
rune coins except the only package that
gets you 500 rune coins is the package
that you have to buy 800 runa coins for
$21.99 I'll play that game all these old
school updates clearly changed the
functionality of player owned houses
they were a lot cooler these updates not
only gave players an incentive to build
their own house up it gave hosts the
incentive to build the most efficient
design hosting and became a super
competitive scene you know that tip jar
that [__] must have been bringing in a
little too much dough because there was
just an underground warfare between
hosts trying to sabotage each other in
the most fucked-up ways to be the one
and only true king of the house hosting
my buddy : ello made a whole video going
in depth about that whole underground
warfare [__] luckily jagex actually put
in a pretty cool thing with the house
board people can just put up their house
on there let everyone know they're
hosting tells everything they have in
there so you don't have to wonder but
after all this evolution we've discussed
people are still somehow unsatisfied
it's almost 14 years since construction
came out players got a nice little taste
of that juicy crack of XP they're
addicted they need help
I found this reddit post here's how you
can rework the construction system
clearly he didn't get much support for
it another guy was like I mean yeah I
needs a rework but like not like this no
it doesn't in the current state player
own houses have everything you would
ever need except for friends
I still see people hanging out at hosted
houses but the social aspect is is
nothing what it used to be which is
completely understandable it's very sad
but very understandable like I mentioned
earlier we all grew up our outlook on
gaming in general has shifted from a
playground to a workspace which is
essentially kind of what real life is
but it's fun to remember house parties
were definitely one of my favorite
things as a kid things are different now
but hey that's okay so are a lot of
other things like what else is different
I know you know it's different [__] you
but without a doubt Construction is
definitely one of the best things to
ever happen to runescape it's one of
those skills that you can see how it's
grown up with us that skill has had one
hell of a journey and I'm glad that you
guys were here to talk about it with me
but that's about all I have for today I
appreciate you guys coming along for
this ride this was very new for me next
video I put out it's gonna be by release
after that is gonna be my first full non
runescape video on the channel I think
it's one of the best projects I've ever
made but that's it that's all I have go
ahead and get out of here and throw a
[__] house party go throw a house
party let's get hammered
let's bring the kegs go find beer in the
game and let's drink like nerds and like
we have a social life even though we
don't come on
[Music]